README.md, before:

# Docker-Restic

Docker-Restic is a Docker image that provides an easy way to use restic for container backups. It efficiently handles three key functionalities: incremental backups, full backups and remote synchronization. The backup process is fully automated.

## Features

- **Incremental Backups:** Docker-Restic performs daily snapshots using restic, allowing you to capture changes in your data efficiently.
- **Full Backups:** Docker-Restic automatically exports a weekly tar archive file, providing a full backup of your data.
- **Remote Sync (Optional):** You have the option to enable a remote synchronization using rclone, which ensures that your backups are securely transferred to a remote location.
- **Easy Setup:** All data mounted at `/source` within Docker-Restic is backed up to `/target`. This flexible setup allows you to define the specific directories and volumes you wish to include in your backups.
- **Container Management:** Containers labeled with `restic-stop=true` are gracefully stopped before the backup process and restarted afterward, ensuring data consistency during the backup operation.
- **File Locking:** To prevent concurrent access to backup resources, Docker-Restic utilizes a lockfile mechanism that effectively manages access and avoids conflicts.
- **Flexible Customization:** Docker-Restic offers a high level of customization through various `ARG`s and `ENV`s that can be easily set or overwritten according to your requirements. These customization options provide the flexibility to adapt the backup process to your specific needs.

## Getting Started

To get started with Docker-Restic, follow these steps:

1. Pull the Docker-Restic image from the official Docker Hub repository:

```shell
docker pull patrickap/docker-restic:latest
```

2. Configure the necessary `ARG`s and `ENV`s to suit your backup requirements. Refer to the `Dockerfile` for a complete list of customization options.

3. Run the Docker-Restic container:

```shell
docker run -d --name docker-restic \
    -v /path/to/source:/source \
    -v /path/to/target:/target \
    -e RESTIC_PASSWORD=your-password \
    patrickap/docker-restic:latest
```

4. Monitor the backup process and view the logs:

```shell
docker logs docker-restic
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to Docker-Restic! If you have suggestions, bug reports, or would like to contribute new features, please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue on the GitHub repository.

## License

Docker-Restic is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

chore: added features to readme

README.md, after:

# Docker-Restic

Docker-Restic is a Docker image that provides an easy way to use restic for container backups. It efficiently handles three key functionalities: incremental backups, full backups and remote synchronization. The backup process is fully automated.

## Features

- **Easy Setup:** All data mounted at `/source` within Docker-Restic is backed up to `/target`. This flexible setup allows you to define the specific directories and volumes you wish to include in your backups.
- **Incremental Backups:** Docker-Restic performs daily snapshots using restic, allowing you to capture changes in your data efficiently.
- **Full Backups:** Docker-Restic automatically exports a weekly tar archive file, providing a full backup of your data.
- **Remote Sync (Optional):** You have the option to enable a remote synchronization using rclone, which ensures that your backups are securely transferred to a remote location.
- **Container Management:** Containers labeled with `restic-stop=true` are gracefully stopped before the backup process and restarted afterward, ensuring data consistency during the backup operation.
- **File Locking:** To prevent concurrent access to backup resources, Docker-Restic utilizes a lockfile mechanism that effectively manages access and avoids conflicts.
- **Flexible Customization:** Docker-Restic offers a high level of customization through various `ARG`s and `ENV`s that can be easily set or overwritten according to your requirements. These customization options provide the flexibility to adapt the backup process to your specific needs.
- **Data Integrity Checks**: Docker-Restic prioritizes the integrity of your backup data. It performs data integrity checks for all backup methods. These checks ensure that your backup data remains consistent and reliable, giving you peace of mind knowing that your valuable data is protected.
- **Logs**: Docker-Restic provides clear and easily comprehensible logs, making it effortless to monitor and troubleshoot the backup process. The logs are designed to present relevant information in a user-friendly format, enabling you to quickly identify any issues or track the progress of your backups.
- **All Restic Goodies Included**: Docker-Restic incorporates all the powerful features and capabilities of the restic backup tool. You can leverage restic's advanced functionalities, such as deduplication, encryption and data integrity checks to ensure robust and secure backups for your container volumes.

## Getting Started

To get started with Docker-Restic, follow these steps:

1. Pull the Docker-Restic image from the official Docker Hub repository:

```shell
docker pull patrickap/docker-restic:latest
```

2. Configure the necessary `ARG`s and `ENV`s to suit your backup requirements. Refer to the `Dockerfile` for a complete list of customization options.

3. Run the Docker-Restic container:

```shell
docker run -d --name docker-restic \
    -v /path/to/source:/source \
    -v /path/to/target:/target \
    -e RESTIC_PASSWORD=your-password \
    patrickap/docker-restic:latest
```

4. Monitor the backup process and view the logs:

```shell
docker logs docker-restic
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to Docker-Restic! If you have suggestions, bug reports, or would like to contribute new features, please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue on the GitHub repository.

## License

Docker-Restic is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
